> In the previous article, we experienced the painless process of using Flutter to jumpstart development, and this issue focuses on the listing review process.

! [alt text] (./figures/17-1.PNG)

## Painless packing

Prepare the production certificate in advance.

> For specific steps, see "HarmonyOS Flutter Practice: 13 - HarmonyOS Application Packaging and Listing Process", in the certificate column of the AGC platform, after "Add Certificate" is successful, click Now to get a xx.cer file (digital certificate file), and in the Profile column, after adding, click Now to get a xx.p7b file (Profile file). These two documents will be used for manual signing.

Use the latest IDE auto-upload feature.

> the menu bar of DevEco Studio, click Build > Upload Product, log in to your developer account, and enter the upload page.

! [alt text] (./figures/17-2.PNG)

> Select Generate app package and upload it to AppGallery Connect for test and publish.

## Painless audits

> review is actually a very important process all the time, don't think that the development is over, packaging and uploading, App Gallery's review is very strict, so be mentally prepared in advance.

> For new apps, the first time on the shelves is relatively friendly and relaxed, but it should also be clear that there are no obvious problems, meet the general requirements, and do not have a fluke mentality.

### name

The name should be unique, search in the mall in advance, and do not use easily misunderstood, too generic names, such as "file management", "QR code generation", it is recommended to add brand prefixes, if there is a trademark copyright is more painless.

### icon

According to the specification design, do not be similar to the system icon, do not be similar to other applications.

### ICP filing

Record the domain name and app in advance, and ensure that the app name and package name correspond one-to-one.

### Soft

Use electronic soft copy, or directly find an intermediary for all-inclusive, you only need to provide basic information such as your name, and the whole process is painless.

The name or abbreviation in the soft book should correspond to the name of the app.

### Fully tested

Make sure to test adequately, and if the distribution platform chooses a tablet, make sure to test on a tablet.

### Record a test video

The reviewers are very careful and will help you find bugs, so it's important to have a test video.
If you do not have the tablet test conditions, we recommend that you select this option after the later update. It is more painless to only focus on the phone on the shelf.

### Remarks

If there are some special design concepts for the application, a note is required. Don't expect reviewers to easily understand your intent.

### Test account

If you're designing a login feature, it's a good idea to provide a test account that works and even has data, so that reviewers don't have to worry about it.

### Submission time

Submit early, avoid Saturdays. Suggested submission times are every evening from Sunday to Thursday. Don't withdraw your submission or you'll have to queue it up again.

## References

- [Harmony Flutter Practice: 13-Harmony Application Packaging and Listing Process](./Harmony Flutter Practice: 13-Harmony Application Packaging and Listing Process.md)
- [Harmony Flutter Practice: 16 - Painless Development Guide (For Beginners)](./Harmony Flutter Practice: 16 - Painless Development Guide (For Beginners).md)
- [HarmonyOS App/Meta Service Release] (https://developer.huawei.com/consumer/cn/doc/harmonyos-guides-V13/ide-publish-app-V13)